{{artwork}}-once_upon_a_time.txt

People usually said that our human brain is a super computer, with a very slow internet connection, because the input is reading, seeing (then forget most of the thing after that) and the output is writing, speaking.

It is true in the perspective of the mind, the logical thinking. But i think we can do input and output at a much much much higher rate than that. It is just our input and output are not what people usually think they are. Our subconscious mind (i will call it sub-mind for short) is our real interface for input and output, we learn much more faster and react, realize much more faster when we let subconscious mind takes the wheel for us.

When the logical mind is reading a book, it only understands words, ideas, thoughts the author of this book trying to deliver, while the sub-mind is noticing how this book make you feel, uncomfortable, frustrated, hustle, unease, joy, peace, light. I think feeling is the main channel for taking information into your brain (or into muscles, soul? i still not know). 

About 5 years ago, I have read Tao: The Pathless Path and Fire In the Belly, they are life changing for me at that time. Although, I forgot 99.5% of what the books are saying. But the feeling they give me is hardly forgotten. The Pathless Path makes me feel peaceful, offload a lot of my mental luggages at that time. Fire in the Belly brings me the masculine, inspirational and romantic feeling. They are very long lasting (plus, i am a slow reader, so it takes me 3 or 4 months to finish them).

You may think to yourself, these feelings are nice, but if i am a web developer, a university student or whatever i am doing. How are these feelings make any different? how are they improve me in anyway? Surely, i cannot write i have a lot of feelings in my CV. These feelings can be a temporary escape for my dull job/life, but what is more to it, i still have to do my job/ live my life

As Mr. Wim Hof usually says “Feeling is understanding”, feeling is the fuel for the sub-mind to work, many things you have done proficently, are done with feelings. For example, when you learned to ride a bike, you remembered all technical stuffs, how to paddle the pedal and keep the bike balance at the same time. your logical mind is overwhelm and you keep failing. But when you did successfully ride a bike, you thought nothing about these technical stuffs, you just feel a balance feeling, when you turns right with high speed, you naturally adjust your body to balance the bike again. All of it comes from a feeling.

But what if i am a developer or a student who trying to do mathematics? Can feelings help me to find the right answers for my problems? YES, it can, sub-mind usually tries to communicate with you by sending an eureka feeling. It comes when you are silently concerning (not thinking) about something, and the feeling flash in. After that moment, the thinking mind rushes in to conceptualize and verbalize it into words.

To sum up, your brain has a better way to input and output information than most people think, this way is more subtle if we don’t pay attention to it, but it will always work in the background.

To apply this knowledge into your daily life. You just need to be more conscious in everything you are doing. That’s all, i am not a fan of exercises that have to do daily. When you see enough the important of being conscious in daily life, you will begin to be more conscious by choice anyway.

When we are more conscious, we feel and realize a lot of subtle things. We tend to use our phone in toilet, but if you go to toilet without your phone, and taking shit more consciously (just dont constantly thinking), you will see that taking shit can be so epic. The feeling is overflowing (thing come out of your ass anyway, so it should feel kind of similar to sex). Just that simple thing can often teach you about how healthy the food that you eat or is some food is in sync with your body or not.

I see a lot of people looking at their phone while eating, walking, or gathering with their friends. These actions have become a normal day to day things. It limits their ability to learn and grow so much, i usually thinks that when people doing that, they stop aging, but only stop their brain from aging(i mean, they have the experience of 30 years old guy, but their brains are 40 years old already. On the other hand, people with more conscious throughout their live can have the experience of 40 years old man, when they are just 30. It is so inspiring. Life is not fair, it is not limiting the level we can reach at all.


