{{artwork}}-once_upon_a_time.txt


Note: This is an entry of my journal. I just write every ideas I have about something down, It is like talking to myself. So the grammar, structure are suck.


I usually reading/viewing too much, but lack the doing, I think that is one of my biggest weakness in learning anything.

I know how much I can learn in reading/watching videos, they have some progress, but usually, It is slow.

I wonder how much more effective when doing comparing to reading? I think it will be a lot, but I like a number. 

- Reading/watching
+ I mainly absorb information through my logical mind, which is slow and limited as fuck.
+ The more I know about the mind, it appears really weak to me, especially in learning. It may be good in math, planning, but really bad in conceptualize anything, look like it is good at processing and outputting data instead of processing and absorbing data. Do we need another channel to absorb data?
+ Most of what we are reading/watching is relating to a feeling or an action, which is not really something the logical mind is good at processing. It is like CPU is not good at heavy-graphic task, but GPU can do that easily.

- Doing/Experiencing
+ I think the fastest channel for learning is not reading/watching, but FEELIING, every skills, actions that you do is relating to a feeling, so if you feel it, you can almost do it, if you feel it deeply, you will be good at it.
+ Feeling is very broad, we can feel with our skin, nose, body movement, finger movement... That is a plus point of learning by feeling. We can learn by almost any of our body parts.
+ Doing provokes a lot of feeling, that's why doing is the best way of learning.
+ In that sense, reading can be good for learning too, if our reading can provoke feelings. Some books can make us really feel elating, exciting, which is good for learning too. But some books are just trash. If we accidently read a trash book, don't hesitate to put it down, you don't need to finish it.
+ we can learn a lot by being more present, that way, we feel whatever feeling felt by our body, hour movement, you bench down to pick up 5kg water bottle,. You see how it feels like, is something make you uncomfortable when doing it, you feel, you understand and adjust your movement the next time pick up that bottle. That's it, you don't need to read articles like "how to pick up bottle the right way, you did it ALL WRONG". Imagine you keep being present, how much more will you learn?. A lot of subtle things will be opened up to you, most of them you can't even find on the internet.
+ Win Hof usually said in his interview "Feeling is experience", which is true, when we look at an event in the past, what we remember is not some thoughts, mind processing, but a feeling. Just like a cool friend you admire deeply in high school, 10 years later without seeing him. You still feel what he makes you feel 10 years ago, and think of him as a cool guy, although he was a high school student and you are now an university graduation with few years of work experience already.
+ When doing, we are building a branch from hour knowledge tree, this branch sticks any new knowledges we discover in our way, which will help persist this knowledge and apply it to our task at hand right away. We can't really have that kind of convenient and infrastructure while studying


Some quotes from the book The Miracles of Attention and Awareness

---
Learning happen all by itself and much more rapidly if you focus on being alive and experiencing rather than accumulating loads of data

---
Awareness is the cause, knowledge is the effect

---
Knowledge that is not applied, is not real knowledge. It's just superfluous mind-stuff that has no use or consequence of daily life. Knowledge becomes good thing when it is applied. And yet, many of us feed ourselves with unapplicable knowledge every day.

---